---
title: "RNASeqR: an R package for automated two-group RNA-Seq
analysis workflow"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019_12_04-RNASeqR
excerpt: 'This R package is designed for case-control RNA-Seq analysis (two-group). There are six steps: "RNASeqRParam S4 Object Creation", "Environment Setup", "Quality Assessment", "Reads Alignment & Quantification", "Gene-level Differential Analyses" and "Functional Analyses". Each step corresponds to a function in this package. After running functions in order, a basic RNASeq analysis would be done easily.'
date: 2019-12-04
venue: 'IEEE/ACM Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics (TCBB)'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8918337'
citation: '<br><b style="color:#ad0000">K.H. Chao*</b>, Y.W. Hsiao, Y.F. Lee, C.Y. Lee, L.C. Lai, M.H. Tsai, T.P. Lu, and E.Y. Chuang (2019). "RNASeqR: an R package for automated two-group RNA-Seq analysis workflow" in <b><i>IEEE/ACM Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics (TCBB)</i></b>. doi: 10.1109/TCBB.2019.2956708.'
---
---

## Abstract

RNA-Seq analysis has revolutionized researchers’ understanding of the transcriptome in biological research. Assessing the differences in transcriptomic profiles between tissue samples or patient groups enables researchers to explore the underlying biological impact of transcription. RNA-Seq analysis requires multiple processing steps and huge computational capabilities. There are many well-developed R packages for individual steps; however, there are few R/Bioconductor packages that integrate existing software tools into a comprehensive RNA-Seq analysis and provide fundamental end-to-end results in pure R environment so that researchers can quickly and easily get fundamental information in big sequencing data. To address this need, we have developed the open source R/Bioconductor package, RNASeqR. It allows users to run an automated RNA- Seq analysis with only six steps, producing essential tabular and graphical results for further biological interpretation. The features of RNASeqR include: six-step analysis, comprehensive visualization, background execution version, and the integration of both R and command-line software. RNASeqR provides fast, light-weight, and easy-to-run RNA-Seq analysis pipeline in pure R environment. It allows users to efficiently utilize popular software tools, including both R/Bioconductor and command-line tools, without predefining the resources or environments. RNASeqR is freely available for Linux and macOS operating systems from Bioconductor (https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/RNASeqR.html).

## Conclusion
RNASeqR is a new Bioconductor package providing a six- step automated workflow for two-group comparative RNA-Seq analysis. The core design concept of RNASeqR is that each RNA-Seq analysis step is implemented as an R function in the package, and thus users can perform RNA- Seq analysis instinctively. The main features of RNASeqR include: (i) flexible function options in both an R-interac- tive version and a background version, (ii) comprehensive visualization, (iii) integration of command-line tools into the R environment, (iv) a well-defined file structure, and (v) ease of use. We believe that RNASeqR will assist clinical researchers without significant computational background to obtain useful information from RNA-Seq data in an easy, efficient and reproducible manner.


---
**Contact:**&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;kuanhao.chao@gmail.com

**Index Terms:** &nbsp;&nbsp;RNA-Seq, Analysis workflow, Pipeline, R, Bioconductor, Transcriptome assembly, Differential expression analysis, Gene expression, Statistical analysis, Visualization

[Download paper here](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8918337&isnumber=4359833)
